## 1.14 Extra: Remote Function Calls and BAPIs

### Overview
This lesson provides an overview of the interface technologies available to you in the SAP system, while focusing on the significance of RFCs and BAPIs.

### Objectives

After completing this lesson, you will be able to:

- List various interface technologies used by SAP systems
- Describe the process for a Remote Function Call
- Explain the significance and use of business objects and their BAPIs
- Make a Remote Function Call

### Important topics

#### Remote Function Call
The Remote Function Call interface is an SAP interface protocol based on CPI-C and TCP/IP. It simplifies the programming of communication processes between different systems. RFCs enable you to call and execute predefined functions in a remote system – or within the same system. RFCs manage the communication process, parameter transfer and error handling.
RFC describes an interface, not the programming language in which the function runs. You can also use RFCs to call functions in non-SAP systems. The procedure for RFC communication between two SAP systems is that the calling system uses an RFC definition in the system called to access a specific function. This function is normally a remote-enabled function module.

#### BOR and BAPIs
A Business Application Programming Interface (BAPI) is a standardized programming interface that facilitates internal and external access to business processes and data in SAP systems. BAPIs are defined in the Business Object Repository as methods of SAP business objects and enable an object-oriented view of business data in an SAP system. Functions that can be called using BAPIs are normally implemented and stored in the ABAP Workbench Function Builder as RFC-enabled function modules. You can display an overview of available BAPIs in the BOR, for example, by activating the Business Object Repository pushbutton in the Business Object Builder (Tools → ABAP Workbench → Development → Business Object Builder), transaction SWO1. You can access the BOR directly using transaction code BAPI.

***BAPI***s, which represent methods for business objects in an SAP system, are used in a variety of contexts. Here are some possible uses for BAPIs:

- To link business processes across system boundaries (for example, when using ALE)
- Used by SAP to integrate various solutions in the framework of SAP Business Suite
- To connect an SAP system to the Internet
- Used in conjunction with SAP Business Workflow
- To connect to external programs

*Note*: BAPIs are created and tested in exactly the same way as other function modules, using the Function Builder, transaction SE37, and are then defined as BAPIs in the BOR.

**Required reading**:
- [TAW10_1 Unit 4 (pages 114-123)](https://msggroup.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/msteams_f974e3/Freigegebene%20Dokumente/General/SAP%20Summer%20School%202023/Training%20materials/TAW/TAW10_1_EN_Col92_FV_Part_NSC.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=qJJmzd)
