## 1.6 Modularization with Function Modules

### Overview
In this lesson you will learn how to search for function modules, analyze their interfaces and documentation, and test their functions. You will learn how to use existing function modules in your programs and what you have to do to catch and handle errors. Finally, you will create function modules yourself and encapsulate functions in them that you can then reuse in other programs.

### Objectives
After completing this lesson, you will be able to:
- Search for function modules
- Acquire information on the functionality and use of function modules
- Call function modules in your program
- Create a function group
- Create a function module
- Explain the role of BAPIs and identify their special properties

### Important topics

A **function module** is a subroutine with the corresponding function that is stored centrally in the Function Library of the SAP system. Each function module has an interface with parameters for importing or exporting data. The main purpose of function modules is their reusability. Hence, they belong to the reuse components.

Function modules are assigned to **function groups**. Each function group is a collection of function modules that have similar functions and/or process the same data.
A function group can contain the same components as an executable program.
These include:
*Data Objects*
These are global in relation to the function group, that is, they are visible to and can be changed by all function modules within the group.
*Subroutines*
These can be called from all function modules in the group.
*Screens*
These can be called from all function modules in the group.

As is the case with subroutines, a function module can contain its own local typeand data object definitions. These can only be seen within the function module.
The interface of a function module can contain the following elements:
- *Import parameter*: Values or variables of the calling program can be transferred to them when the function module is called. The optional parameters do not have to be supplied with data during the call.
- *Export parameter*: The calling program accepts the output of the function module by way of the assignment of a “receiving variable” to an export parameter. Export parameters are always optional.
- *Changing parameter*: You can transfer the variables of the calling program that are changed by the function module to the changing parameters.
- *Exceptions*: They can be raised by the function module in certain error situations and provide information on the respective processing error in the function module. Exceptions should be handled by the calling program.

Function modules are called using the CALL FUNCTION statement. The name of the function module follows in capital letters enclosed in single quotation marks.

In the **EXPORTING block**, the system passes values to the **import** parameters of the function module.
In the **IMPORTING block** of the call, actual parameters are assigned to the **export** parameters. You can use them to access the results of the call.

#### Exception Handling

If application errors occur when a function module is processed (for example, a value is not suitable for the calculation), the function module raises the corresponding exception. This causes the processing of the function module to be canceled and the system returns to the calling program. If the exception is listed (caught) in the EXCEPTIONS block of the call, the specified return code is entered in the sy-subrc system field of the calling program. By checking this field after the call, you can thus determine if and, where applicable, which exception was raised so you can react accordingly. If no exception was raised by the function module, the sy-subrc of the calling program is set to zero.

#### Extra: Working with BAPIs

The **Business Object Repository (BOR)** in the SAP system contains **business objects**. Technically speaking, a business object is a class and corresponds to an SAP table or a table hierarchy. A business object has **BAPIs** (Business Application Programming Interfaces) as methods. You can call these BAPIs to access the corresponding table(s). Hence, a BAPI is a means of accessing data in the SAP system.
BAPIs usually exist for basic functions of a business object, such as:

- Creating an object
- Retrieving the attributes of an object
- Changing the attributes of an object
- Listing the objects
- 
The functions of a BAPI are encapsulated in a function module that can be called remotely. BAPIs can therefore be called by ABAP programs of the same SAP system as well as by external programs

**Required reading**:
- [TAW10_1 Unit 8 (pages 266-298)](https://msggroup.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/msteams_f974e3/Freigegebene%20Dokumente/General/SAP%20Summer%20School%202023/Training%20materials/TAW/TAW10_1_EN_Col92_FV_Part_NSC.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=qJJmzd)
  
