## 1.7 Modularization with Global Classes

### Overview

In this lesson you will be introduced to another technique for cross-program modularization: The call of methods of global classes. In a similar way to the function groups and function modules, we will first look for, analyze, test, and use existing classes and methods. In an additional step we will then create a global class with a simple method. Note that this lesson is not intended to provide a comprehensive introduction to
object-oriented programming with ABAP. You should merely familiarize yourself with the basic terms of object-oriented programming so that you can use the functions of existing global classes in your own programs.

### Objectives

After completing this lesson, you will be able to:

- Explain the basic terms of object-oriented programming
- Acquire information about the function and use of global classes and their methods
- Call methods of global classes in your programs
- Create global classes
- Create and implement simple methods in global classes

### Important topics

**Principles of Object-Oriented Programming**
*Classes, Attributes, and Methods*
In the course of object-oriented enhancements to ABAP, global classes were introduced that make functions available in a similar way in the form of methods. Like function modules, methods also have an interface, know as a signature, that comprises import, export and changing parameters and exceptions. They also contain global data objects, knows as attributes.

*Encapsulating Data, Public and Private Components*
In contrast to function modules, classes also allow you to make specific attributes visible to users of the class. A distinction is therefore made between public and private attributes.

This distinction can be applied not only to attributes but also to methods. Whereas all function modules can be called from outside the function group, only public methods are available outside the class. Private methods can only be called by other methods of the same class, and are thus fairly similar in this respect to subroutines (for routines) within a function group.

*Multiple Instantiation of Classes*
The major difference between global classes and function groups is that a function group with its global data objects can only be loaded once to the program context for each main program, whereas a global class can be loaded as many times as you like. This is known as multiple instantiation of the class. In practice, this means that the values in the global data objects of a function group are the same for all function module calls. By contrast, a class can have several instances (also known as objects), each of which is stored separately in the program context of the main program. Each instance can therefore have different attribute values. Consequently, a method sees different values in the attributes, depending on the instance for which it was called. You have to generate a class instance explicitly in the ABAP source code using the CREATE OBJECT statement.

*Instance Components and Static Components*
Attributes that can have a different value for each instance are know as instance attributes, in order to distinguish them from static attributes (or class attributes). Static attributes exist only once for each program context, regardless of how many class instances are generated when a program runs. If instance methods access a static attribute, all instances see the same value. Above all, an instance method can change the value and all the other instances will then see the new value.

With methods too, a distinction is made between static methods and instance methods. The main difference is that an instance method can only be called if a class instance was generated beforehand. By contrast, static methods can be called without previous instantiation of the class

**Required reading**:
- [TAW10_1 Unit 8 (pages 300-328)](https://msggroup.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/msteams_f974e3/Freigegebene%20Dokumente/General/SAP%20Summer%20School%202023/Training%20materials/TAW/TAW10_1_EN_Col92_FV_Part_NSC.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=qJJmzd)
